<p class="new-content">This profile is defines the base requirements for a Pharmacy ExplanationOfBenefit. All of the requirements are an exact subset of the original profile from earlier versions with only the financial data element requirements removed in order to address the use case of <a href="Use_Case.html#use-case---sharing-of-non-financial-claims-data">sharing Non-Financial Claims Data</a> that enables other FHIR Implementation Guides to support communication of ExplanationOfBenefit data without financial data. These profiles are not expected to be implemented directly within the context of the consumer directed data exchange use case defined by this guide, but rather from within the context in which external guides may define (e.g. Provider Access API of PDEX).</p>
<h4>Notes on Fields</h4>
<ul>
<li>The EOB FHIR Resource defines a comprehensive set of data elements.&nbsp; Many of them are not relevant to this use case.&nbsp; When reviewing the Profile Snapshot, several data elements previously hidden are now exposed.&nbsp; Fields intended for consideration to be provided in the API are marked as <a href="Conformance_Requirements.html#must-support">Must Support</a>; i.e., a red <span style="color: #ffffff; background-color: #ff0000;">S</span> or have a minimum cardinality of 1.&nbsp; All other data elements are not expected to be sent by a Responder; if they are sent a Requestor can choose to ignore them</li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.item.productOrService:&nbsp; values are NDC Codes when Compound Code (MapID 78) = 0 or 1.&nbsp; When the Compound Code = 2, productOrService = "compound" and map the ingredient to ExplanationOfBenefit.item.detail.productOrService</li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.item.productOrService and item.detail.productOrService: Payers shall provide an 11-digit NDC.  For additional information, reference the Other useful Information in the HL7 Terminology Authority - External Terminologies - NDC Confluence site, <a href="https://confluence.hl7.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=97453858 ">https://confluence.hl7.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=97453858</a></li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.item.quantity:&nbsp; populate for all Compound Code values.&nbsp; When the Compound Code = 2, if available, map the ingredient to ExplanationOfBenefit.item.detail.quantity</li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.adjudication[benefitpaymentstatus]:&nbsp; in network or out of network payment status for the claim</li>
<li>The CPCDS data elements are defined in the data element comments.&nbsp; The numbers, e.g. (1), following the data element descriptions in the comments correlate to the MapID in the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDSDataDictionary.docx" >CPCDS Data Dictionary</a>&nbsp;and the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDStoFHIRProfilesMapping.xlsx">Mapping Worksheet</a>&nbsp;as described&nbsp;<a href="Common_Payer_Consumer_Data_Set.html">here.</a></li>
<li>meta.profile is required as a matter of convenience of receiving systems. The meta.profile should be used by the Server to hint/assert/declare that this instance conforms to one (or more) stated profiles (with business versions). meta.profile does not capture any business logic, processing directives, or semantics (for example, inpatient or outpatient). Clients should not assume that the Server will exhaustively indicate all profiles with all versions that this instance conforms to. Clients can (and should) perform their own validation of conformance to the indicated profile(s) and to any other profiles of interest.</li>
</ul>