<h4>Notes on Fields</h4>
<ul>
<li>The EOB FHIR Resource defines a comprehensive set of data elements.&nbsp; Many of them are not relevant to this use case.&nbsp; When reviewing the Profile Snapshot, several data elements previously hidden are now exposed.&nbsp; Fields intended for consideration to be provided in the API are marked as <a href="Conformance_Requirements.html#must-support">Must Support</a>; i.e., a red <span style="color: #ffffff; background-color: #ff0000;">S</span> or have a minimum cardinality of 1.&nbsp; All other data elements are not expected to be sent by a Responder; if they are sent a Requestor can choose to ignore them</li>
<li>CPCDS data elements are mapped to EOB header or EOB.item data elements in alignment with claims submission standards.&nbsp; Line item amounts and amount types are to be provided in EOB.item.&nbsp; If a Payer does not have line item amounts, provide the claim amounts and amount types in the EOB header data elements.&nbsp; Total amounts and amount types of the claim are to be provided in EOB.total.</li>
<li>The determination of inpatient vs. outpatient institutional claims is defined by the Type of Bill. The NUBC manual defines which TOBs are inpatient vs outpatient.</li>
<li>A CPT / HCPCS code may not be available on an inpatient institutional claim. The cardinality of the HL7 base EOB Resource for item.productOrService is 1..1 if .item is provided.&nbsp; Since .item.revenue is required it means that item.productOrService must be populated.&nbsp; Since the profile is not able to relax the cardinality of the resource, it is recommended payers provide a data absent reason when a CPT / HCPCS code is not available.</li>
<li>.diagnosis:&nbsp; ICD-10 / ICD-9 diagnosis codes are defined as CodeableConcepts</li>
<li>.diagnosis.sequence rule:&nbsp; diagnosis.sequence values do not necessarily indicate any order in which the diagnosis was reported or identified.&nbsp; client app implementations should not assign any significance to the sequence values.&nbsp; client app implementations should use the values of diagnosis.type to identify primary, secondary, etc.&nbsp;</li>
<li>.procedure:&nbsp; ICD-10 / ICD-9 procedure codes are defined as CodeableConcepts</li>
<li>.procedure.sequence rule:&nbsp; procedure.sequence values do not necessarily indicate any order in which the procedure occurred.&nbsp; client app implementations should not assign any significance to the sequence values.&nbsp; client app implementations should use the values of procedure.type to identify primary and secondary procedures</li>
<li>.supportingInfo[DRG]:&nbsp; DRGs require the DRG system; i.e., MS-DRG / AP-DRG / APR-DRG, the DRG version and the code value</li>
<li>.adjudication.amount (populate only if item.adjudication is not available):&nbsp; Eligible amount = submitted amount - the noncovered amount - discount.&nbsp; The subscriber pays the member liability = deductible + coinsurance + copay + noncovered.&nbsp; (part of the member liability may have already been paid to the provider as paidbypatient). The eligible amount - the member liability is the payment amount to the provider (paidtoprovider) or the subscriber (paidtopatient)</li>
<li>.item.adjudication.amount: &nbsp;Eligible amount = submitted amount - the noncovered amount - discount.&nbsp; The subscriber pays the member liability = deductible + coinsurance + copay + noncovered.&nbsp; (part of the member liability may have already been paid to the provider as paidbypatient). The eligible amount - the member liability is the payment amount to the provider (paidtoprovider) or the subscriber (paidtopatient)</li>
<li>.total.amount:&nbsp; Eligible amount = submitted amount - the noncovered amount - discount.&nbsp; The subscriber pays the member liability = deductible + coinsurance + copay + noncovered.&nbsp; (part of the member liability may have already been paid to the provider as paidbypatient). The eligible amount - the member liability is the payment amount to the provider (paidtoprovider) or the subscriber (paidtopatient)</li>
<li>.adjudication[benefitpaymentstatus]:&nbsp; in network or out of network payment status for the claim</li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.adjudication elements may contain slices for both billing network status (billingnetworkstatus) and benefit payment status (benefitpaymentstatus) which each contain a reason code bound to very similar ValueSets that indicate network status. The billing network status indicates the general relationship (often a contract status) the billing provider has with the payer. The benefit payment status indicates how the service or product is covered (in or out of network) in context to its provisioning. These two values may be different.<br/>
An example of this is where an in network provider that has billed for a service that is not within the scope of the contract of service with the payer.</li>
<li>The CPCDS data elements are defined in the data element comments.&nbsp; The numbers, e.g. (1), following the data element descriptions in the comments correlate to the MapID in the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDSDataDictionary.docx" >CPCDS Data Dictionary</a>&nbsp;and the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDStoFHIRProfilesMapping.xlsx">Mapping Worksheet</a>&nbsp;as described&nbsp;<a href="Common_Payer_Consumer_Data_Set.html">here.</a></li>
<li>meta.profile is required as a matter of convenience of receiving systems. The meta.profile should be used by the Server to hint/assert/declare that this instance conforms to one (or more) stated profiles (with business versions). meta.profile does not capture any business logic, processing directives, or semantics (for example, inpatient or outpatient). Clients should not assume that the Server will exhaustively indicate all profiles with all versions that this instance conforms to. Clients can (and should) perform their own validation of conformance to the indicated profile(s) and to any other profiles of interest.</li>
</ul>