<p class="new-content">This profile is defines the base requirements for an Oral ExplanationOfBenefit. All of the requirements are an exact subset of the original profile from earlier versions with only the financial data element requirements removed in order to address the use case of <a href="Use_Case.html#use-case---sharing-of-non-financial-claims-data">sharing Non-Financial Claims Data</a> that enables other FHIR Implementation Guides to support communication of ExplanationOfBenefit data without financial data. These profiles are not expected to be implemented directly within the context of the consumer directed data exchange use case defined by this guide, but rather from within the context in which external guides may define (e.g. Provider Access API of PDEX).</p>

<h4>Notes on Fields</h4>
<ul>
<li>The EOB FHIR Resource defines a comprehensive set of data elements.&nbsp; Many of them are not relevant to this use case.&nbsp; When reviewing the Profile Snapshot, several data elements previously hidden are now exposed.&nbsp; Fields intended for consideration to be provided in the API are marked as <a href="Conformance_Requirements.html#must-support">Must Support</a>; i.e., a red <span style="color: #ffffff; background-color: #ff0000;">S</span> or have a minimum cardinality of 1.&nbsp; All other data elements are not expected to be sent by a Responder; if they are sent a Requestor can choose to ignore them</li>
<li>.diagnosis.sequence rule:&nbsp; diagnosis.sequence values do not necessarily indicate any order in which the diagnosis was reported or identified.&nbsp; client app implementations should not assign any significance to the sequence values.&nbsp; client app implementations should use the values of diagnosis.type to identify primary, secondary, etc.&nbsp;</li>
<li>.diagnosis.sequence: &nbsp;sequentially numbers all diagnoses at the header-level. Item-level are referenced from an item using this sequence number</li>
<li>.supportingInfo[servicefacility]:&nbsp; Service Facility Location information conveys the name, full address and identifier of the facility where services were rendered when that is different from the Billing/Rendering Provider.</li>
<li>.item.&nbsp;diagnosisSequence:&nbsp; References the sequence number of the associated diagnosis entered above</li>
<li>.item.productOrService:   CPT / HCPCS procedure codes are defined as CodeableConcepts: A revenue code will not be available on an oral claim</li>
<li>.item.adjudication[benefitpaymentstatus]:&nbsp;&nbsp;in network or out of network payment status for the line</li>
<li>The line item primary body site (tooth or oral cavity) <strong>SHALL</strong> be specified in the .item.bodySite. Additional body sites (tooth or oral cavity) <strong>SHALL</strong> be specified in supportingInfo[additionalbodysite] repetitions with supportingInfo[additionalbodysite].sequence matching the line items .item.informationSequence</li>
<li>All Oral line item subsites (.item.subSite repetitions) apply to all the line item's associated tooth surfaces (item.bodySite and .supportingInfo[additionalbodysite] associated with the line item by referencing supportingInfo[additionalbodysite].sequence through .item.informationSequence)</li>
<li>ExplanationOfBenefit.adjudication elements may contain slices for both billing network status (billingnetworkstatus) or rendering network status (renderingnetworkstatus). ExplanationOfBenefit.adjudication and ExplanationOfBenefit.item.adjudication elements may contain slices for benefit payment status (benefitpaymentstatus). Each of these adjudication slices contain a reason code bound to very similar ValueSets that indicate network status. The billing or rendering network status indicates the general relationship (often a contract status) the provider has with the payer. The benefit payment status indicates how the service or product (either at the header or item level) is covered (in or out of network) in context to its provisioning. These values may be different across adjudication slices.<br/>
An example of this is where an in network provider that has billed for a service that is not within the scope of the contract of service with the payer.</li>
<li>The CPCDS data elements are defined in the data element comments.&nbsp; The numbers, e.g. (1), following the data element descriptions in the comments correlate to the MapID in the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDSDataDictionary.docx" >CPCDS Data Dictionary</a>&nbsp;and the&nbsp;<a href="CPCDStoFHIRProfilesMapping.xlsx">Mapping Worksheet</a>&nbsp;as described&nbsp;<a href="Common_Payer_Consumer_Data_Set.html">here.</a></li>
<li>meta.profile is required as a matter of convenience of receiving systems. The meta.profile should be used by the Server to hint/assert/declare that this instance conforms to one (or more) stated profiles (with business versions). meta.profile does not capture any business logic, processing directives, or semantics (for example, inpatient or outpatient). Clients should not assume that the Server will exhaustively indicate all profiles with all versions that this instance conforms to. Clients can (and should) perform their own validation of conformance to the indicated profile(s) and to any other profiles of interest.</li>
</ul>